dear editor 

We would like to submit our paper for consideration as an “application” contribution in MEE, and we refer to the pre-submission enquiry to thr senior editor Bob O'Hara Did dated 20th of January 2020. An earlier version of the paper, without the code, can be found at Arxiv (ref). The paper and the code is intendended as a reference implementation of signal processing of data from broadbanded echosounders. The paper outlines the standard processing steps and combines this with Python code where the users can follow the processing step by step.  

Acoustic sensors are Suitable for remote sensing of marine and aquatic ecosystems, and the method has been deployed extensively within aquatic ecology and fisheries oceanography. In recent years, broadbanded echosounders have become the de facto standard for research vessels, underwater vehicles and uncrewed surface vessels. Current developments utilize modern data processing methods to obtain more information from the data, including fish and zooplankton behavior, sizing, distributional patterns, diel vertical migration, abundance estimation etc. 

This contribution will be a starting point for further developing data processing for broadband echosounders. The processing steps are general and can be applied to data from any broadbanded echosounder. The contribution also serve as a tutorial on data processing techniques on acoustic data since it allows the reader to follow each step in the paper in the Corresponding code. 

We believe that this contribution will be a reference contribution for understanding and further developing data processing techniques for broadbanded echosounders applied to aquatic ecology and fisheries oceanography, and thus constitute a key citation for researchers developing signal processing techniques for broadbanded echosounder. 

We hope that you find the contribution interesting and relevant for the journal.

On behalf of the co-authors, sincerely yours, 

 

***** 

Dear Nils, 

  

The Editor has now considered your pre-submission enquiry and feels that your proposal could potentially be suitable for the journal. We would like to encourage you to submit your manuscript to Methods in Ecology and Evolution. The full comments of the Editor are as follows: 

  

“I have looked at your enquiry and (quickly) at your preprint, and I think this might work as an Applications submission (https://besjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/hub/journal/2041210X/features/applicationpapers).  

My main concern would be whether this would be seen as being of general enough interest, but this is something you can cover in your submission: I don't work on marine systems, so I can't judge.” 

  

If you choose to submit, please refer to this pre-submission enquiry to Senior Editor Bob O’Hara in your cover letter. Your manuscript will be considered in the same way as any other paper submitted to the journal. Due to the high volume of quality submissions that we receive, we are not able to send all papers out for peer review.  

  

If you have any questions, or if there is anything that I can do to help, please let me know. 

  

Best wishes, 

  

India 

India Stephenson 
 she/her 
 Assistant Editor, Methods in Ecology and Evolution 
 Website|Blog|Twitter|Facebook 
 Become a British Ecological Society member today! 

  

From: Handegard, Nils Olav <nilsolav@hi.no>  
Sent: 12 January 2022 13:10 
 To: MEE <coordinator@methodsinecologyandevolution.org> 
 Cc: Pedersen, Geir <Geir.Pedersen@hi.no> 
 Subject: Pre-submission enquiry for MEE 

  

Dear editor, 

  

We are seeking an outlet for a paper on signal processing steps for broadbanded scientific echosounders. These systems are commonly used in marine ecology and fisheries oceanography. We have prepared python code that does each step in the process that allow the user to follow each step in the paper. 

  

An earlier (and more technical) version of the paper (without the code) was published on Arxiv: 

https://arxiv.org/abs/2104.07248 

  

While we think this will be an important contribution to the community, we would like some guidance if you think this could suit MEE. We will of course adjust the text to the readership of the journal, and we realize that a positive feedback still requires editorial screening and peer-review. 

  

On behalf of the co-authors, 

Nils Olav Handegard 

 
